Add Variational Quantum Algorithms Module (#123)
qutip/qutip-qip: doc/source/qip-vqa.rst

.. _qip_vqa:

******************************
Variational Quantum Algorithms
******************************

> 

Reviewer: You can add your name and/or your email to get some credit if you want. ;)

The :class:`.OptimizationResult` class provides information about the completed optimization process. For example, the probability amplitudes of different measurement outcomes of the circuit post-optimization can be plotted with :meth:`.OptimizationResult.plot`.

Below, we run an optimization on a toy circuit, tuning a parameterized :math:`x`-rotation gate to try to maximise the probability amplitude of the :math:`|1\rangle` state.

.. testcode::

  from qutip_qip.vqa import VQA, VQABlock
  from qutip import sigmax, sigmaz

  circ = VQA(n_qubits=1, cost_method="OBSERVABLE")
  # Our cost function will be  <psi(t)| sigma_z |psi(t)>
  circ.cost_observable = sigmaz()

  # Our circuit is just an x-rotation gate: e^{-i * t/2 * X}
  circ.add_block(
          VQABlock(sigmax() / 2)
          )

  # Optimize with the SciPy in-built BFGS method
  result = circ.optimize_parameters(
          method="BFGS", use_jac=True
          )

  # Access the SciPy results to output the parameter found
  print(f'Parameter found: {round(result.res.x[0], 2)}')
  result.plot()

**Output**:

.. testoutput::
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  Parameter found: 3.14

> .. image:: /figures/vqa_circuit_optimization_output.png

Reviewer: You don't have to import his figure. Using the plot derivative you can directly show the matplotlib figure you generated from the code (https://qutip-qip.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution-docs.html#id4). Sorry if my previous comment misleads you. I meant only the circuit figure.

Author: Got it, thanks! I've switched to using the plot directive for this section now.

Constructing a VQA circuit
==========================

The :class:`.VQA` class allows for the construction of a parameterized circuit from :class:`.VQABlock` instances, which act as the gates of the circuit. In the most basic instance, a :class:`.VQA` should have:

====================  =================================================
Property                           Description
====================  =================================================
``n_qubits``          Positive integer number of qubits for the circuit 
``n_layers``          Positive integer number of repetitions of the 
                      layered elements of the circuit
``cost_method``       String referring to the method used to
                      evaluate the circuit's cost.

                      Either "OBSERVABLE", "BITSTRING", or "STATE".
====================  =================================================

For example:

.. code-block::

    from qutip_qip.vqa import VQA

    VQA_circuit = VQA(
                n_qubits=1,
                n_layers=1,
                cost_method="OBSERVABLE",
            )

> After constructing this instance, we are ready begin adding elements to our parameterized circuit. Circuit elements in this module are represented by :class:`.VQABlock` instances. Fundamentally, the role of this class is to generate an operator for the circuit. To do this, it keeps track of its free parameters, and gives information to the :class:`.VQA` instance on how to update them. The operator itself can be generated by a user-defined function call, a parameterized Hamiltonian to exponentiate, a pre-computed unitary operator, or a string referring to a gate that has already been defined (either by the user already, or a gate native to QuTiP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After constructing this instance, we are ready to begin adding elements to our parameterized circuit. Circuit elements in this module are represented by :class:`.VQABlock` instances. Fundamentally, the role of this class is to generate an operator for the circuit. To do this, it keeps track of its free parameters, and gives information to the :class:`.VQA` instance on how to update them. The operator itself can be generated by a user-defined function call, a parameterized Hamiltonian to exponentiate, a pre-computed unitary operator, or a string referring to a gate that has already been defined (either by the user already, or a gate native to QuTiP).
```

> In the absence of specification, a VQA block will assume any :class:`~.Qobj` it is given to be a Hamiltonian, :math:`H`, and will generate a unitary with free parameter, :math:`\theta`, as :math:`U(\theta) = e^{-i \theta H}`. For example, 

Reviewer: If I understand correctly
```suggestion
In the absence of specification, a VQA block takes :class:`~.Qobj` a Hamiltonian :math:`H`, and will generate a unitary with free parameter, :math:`\theta`, as :math:`U(\theta) = e^{-i \theta H}`. For example, 
```

It would be nice if examples for other types of VQA blocks can also be added. Can leave it for another PR.

Below, we run an optimization on a toy circuit, tuning a parameterized :math:`x`-rotation gate to try to maximise the probability amplitude of the :math:`|1\rangle` state.

.. plot::
  :context:

  >>> from qutip_qip.vqa import VQA, VQABlock
  >>> from qutip import sigmax, sigmaz
  >>> circ = VQA(n_qubits=1, cost_method="OBSERVABLE")

  Picking the Pauli Z operator as our cost observable, our circuit's cost function will be: :math:`\langle\psi(t)| \sigma_z | \psi(t)\rangle`

  >>> circ.cost_observable = sigmaz()

  Adding a Pauli X operator as a block to the circuit, the operation of the entire circuit becomes: :math:`e^{-i t X /2}`.

  >>> circ.add_block(VQABlock(sigmax() / 2))

  We can now try to find a minimum in our cost function using the SciPy in-built L-BFGS-B (L-BFGS with box constraints) method. We specify the bounds so that our parameter is :math:`0 \leq t \leq 4`.

  >>> result = circ.optimize_parameters(method="L-BFGS-B", use_jac=True, bounds=[[0, 4]])

>   Accessing `result.res.x`, we have the array of parameters found during optimization. In our case, we only had one free parameter, so we examine the first element of this array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Accessing ``result.res.x``, we have the array of parameters found during optimization. In our case, we only had one free parameter, so we examine the first element of this array.
```
